# Bibliomania - A Django Ecommerce Project

Bibliomania is a project written in Python Django, jQuery JavaScript, CSS preprocessed with SASS and plugs into the Stripe API for handling payment options. It includes libraries such as Bootstrap, Charts.JS to provide a frontend, while plugging into a PostresSQL database and integrating django-allauth and django-restAPI for REST API.

The project is intended as a work-sample of how to write a scalable full-stack web-app for ecommerce services.

User Experience (UX)
•	User stories
o	First Time Visitor Goals
1)	As a first-time visitor, I want intuitive navigation and clear presentation of content
2)	As a first-time visitor, I want an easy shopping process where I can complete a purchase in a secure and easy flow
3)	As a first-time visitor, I want to be presented with the content I’m interested in as soon as I open the page

o	Returning Visitor Goals
1)	As a returning visitor, I want easy-access to the content that matters to me. If I am browsing a book in a series, I want information on the series. If I’ve read an authors work and found it compelling, I want to know what else he’s made.
2)	If I’ve registered on the site for ease, I want my opinion to matter. I want to see other users opinion on books presented and I also want to share my own experiences with a book.
3)	As a returning visitor, I’d like the ability to see my previous purchases reflect on my profile and perhaps also the content that might interest me.
o	Staff User Goals
1)	As a member of staff, I want to know what the users think about our products. What products are reviewed well, what products are less popular.
2)	As a member of staff, I want quick access to edit, add and remove the various models, without generalized admin-GUIs such as the Django admin-set.
3)	As a member of staff, I want easy access to searching the database for users, orders and products so that I can swiftly assist customers who require information
•	Design
o	Colour Scheme
I decided to personalize the Bootstrap colours through editing it’s SCSS files and recompiling them as sass. My focus was on a light, accessible colour scheme.
o	Typography
•	Typographically, I elected a main serif font, for readability and clarity, and a secondary font to be applied more as a flourish. The light cursive handwriting is used to enhance jumbotrons and logotypes, as it is more eye-drawing.
Imagery
Outside of product covers, I decided to use mostly fair-use fantasy images for jumbotron backgrounds on landing pages. The cover images are fixed to 250px on all pages, in order to minimize pixilation and uneven carousel displays. A notice is fixed on the product-adding staff page, warning of using smaller images as well as links to free image-resizer browser software.
	Model-layer

The model layer because slightly chaotic towards the end of the project.

 
The model layer became slightly chaotic and could have used a rework, but is submitted in this way because of lack of time. The relation-diagram above explains the connection between the models available in the database. Improvements would have included flagg genre and sire as many-to-many fields and perhaps adding a new “UserTag” model to bridge the gap between product and genre series, however this must be left to post-submission revisions.
o	Controller-layer
•	Primary concerns in the controller-layer was the inclusion of the Django-rest API library, as I wanted serialized JSON data available to the view-layer. I researched different ways of securing the endpoints, in the end settling for passing CSRF-tokens with requests as a means of accessing this data. Other matters within the controller layer were the inclusion of object-views for staff in paginated form, as well as a paginated product-library to decrease on load-times.
o	View-layer
The view-layer uses primarily Django-templated scripted for generating dynamic HTML, in all views. I’ve intermingled certain plugins, such as animate.css, charts.js and the OwlCarousel, for example carousels generated by for-loops by django.

Technologies Used
Languages Used
Python(Django, Django-Rest-Framework), HTML-templating, JavaScript(JQuery), CSS(SASS)
Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used
1.	Bootstrap 4.4.1:
o	Bootstrap was used to assist with the responsiveness and styling of the website.
2.	SASS/CSS
o	SASS is an extension of CSSs, providing a better syntax, variable-sharing, mixins and other useful features. The first CSS of the project was written in CSS, but as the project expanded I moved on to writing styles using SASS and compiling them. https://sass-lang.com/
3.	JQuery
o	Using JQuery syntax allowed for access to a wide-variety of amazing plugins. I especially enjoyed the Owl Carousel plugin as an alternative to the more classic bootstrap, data-target method. Charts JS is another fantastic resource I used, for visualizing data.

Testing 
Testing User Stories from User Experience (UX) Section
•	First Time Visitor Goals
i.	Easy navigation through the flow of shopping is possible through unobtrusive reminders with links as well as standard navbar navigation to the shopping bag.
ii.	As a first-time visitor, I am presented through the jumbotron with an immediate call-to-action to the products page.
•	Returning Visitor Goals
i.	As a returning visitor who has purchased previous products, I’d return to find more, similar products. Product-pages present summaries of related titles and descriptions of authors other works.
ii.	My opinion counts, on products. Users can communicate their opinions by rating products and leaving comments for other users and staff on their experience.
iii.	As a returning visitor, my profile is central to my experience. Here I can easily locate past orders and ensure my display name and shipping data is accurate
•	Staff User Goals
i.	In the staff dashboard, I have easy access to charts on current review trends for analysis of what items are popular with customers.
ii.	With customized views for products and orders, as well as related update-views, we’re able to facilitate easy management of content.
•	Further Testing
a.	Automated tests
b.	Manual testing
Known Bugs
